Utrecht shooting: Turkish-born suspect, 37, on run after three killed in
'possible terror attack'

Police are hunting a Turkish-born 37-year-old in connection with a suspected
terror attack in the Dutch city of Utrecht which has left three dead. 

The
gunman has been on the run since this morning, forcing vast parts of the city -
including mosques and schools - into lockdown.

Officers reported
"multiple" injuries having been called to the incident on the tram in a
residential neighbourhood on Monday morning. 

The suspect was named by police
in Utrecht as Gökmen Tanis, and local media reported the perpetrator escaped in
a red car. 

Moments before the attack, police confirmed a red Renault Clio had
been stolen in a carjacking around a mile from the tram shooting. 

It was later
found abandoned some three miles away in a suburban area of the city. 

Dutch
prime minister Mark Rutte said in a press conference that if it was a terror
attack, it would not undermine Dutch openness and democracy.

The terror threat
in Utrecht was raised to a maximum level of five, the first time that this has
happened in The Netherlands. Parties have also suspended campaigning for
upcoming elections.

But police said they were not ruling any motive out, after
a witness said it appeared the gunman was targeting one particular woman and
attacking anyone who tried to help her.

Mr Rutte said: "Our country has been
shocked by an attack in Utrecht. The police and prosecution services are
investigating what precisely happened. What is certain is that people sitting in
a tram in Utrecht have been shot, there are wounded and possible dead.
"Culprits with a possible terrorist motive have not been ruled out. The first
reports have caused a mixture of disbelief and horror.

"Violence has hit
innocent people hard. Our thoughts are with them, and their near and dear. We
will do everything to catch the culprit or culprits as soon as possible.

"An
act of terrorism is an attack on our civilisation, our open and tolerant
society. If this is indeed a terror attack, there is only one answer: our rule
of law and our democracy are stronger than fanaticism and violence." 

Counter-
terror officers preparing a raid on a house in the Trumanlaan district have
surrounded a building a few hundred yards from 24 Oktoberplein where the
shooting took place.

All mosques in Utrecht have been evacuated and the Utrecht
University and Utrecht Central train station are also on lockdown, according to
NOS.

Three trauma helicopters were called to the scene and police have appealed
for the public to keep the roads clear for emergency services.

A witness, Jimmy
de Koster, told RTV Utrecht he saw a woman lying on the ground shouting: "I
didn't do anything."

Four men rushed towards her in an attempt to drag her to
safety, but a gunman opened fire again, forcing them to take cover, he said. 
It was not immediately clear if it was a lone attacker or if it was a
coordinated attack involving more than one gunman. Local news outlet AD said
police were looking into other reported shootings at nearby locations and
whether or not they are linked. 

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said the
Government and the country's anti-terrorism coordinator were holding a "crisis
meeting" in the aftermath of the shooting.

He said the situation was "very
worrying", and security was tightened at The Hague. Schools in the area have
been told to keep their doors closed.

Mayor of Utrecht Jan van Zanen said:
"Shortly before noon a shooting took place on a tram in Utrecht around 24
Octoberplein.  A horrible and radical incident in which victims have fallen.  My
thoughts are with them and their loved ones.

"I am in close contact with the
police and the public prosecutor... I can confirm that the police and the public
prosecutor are currently looking for the person responsible for this incident.
"The most important thing at the moment is taking care of the wounded and
investigating the circumstances of the incident. We do not exclude anything, not
even a terrorist attack."

No arrests have been made.

We rely on advertising to
help fund our award-winning journalism.

We urge you to turn off your ad blocker
for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content
in the future.

Thank you for your support.

Need help?

Visit our adblocking
instructions
page.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
