More stories

By  Alexander J Martin, technology reporter  

Law enforcement agencies across
the EU are preparing to respond to a major international cyber attack ahead of
the end of May's elections.

Between 23-26 May of this year, depending on
national customs, the remaining EU states will elect their members of the
European Parliament.

It is set to be a significant election, as a Brexit-driven
surge in Euroscepticism across the continent could determine the bloc's future
direction.

It follows Microsoft's detection of a hacking campaign targeting
democratic institutions, from a group believed to be sponsored by the Russian
government.

Those attacks have targeted the employees of political campaigns as
well as think-tanks and non-profit organisations working on topics connected to
democracy and electoral integrity.

Such tactics and interference appear very
similar to the influence campaign which the Russian state is accused of
conducting ahead of the 2016 US presidential election.

The necessary first step
of addressing any kind of systematic wrongdoing is to identify that it is taking
place - but what's next?

The head of Estonia's foreign intelligence agency has
also warned that the Kremlin will "very likely" attempt to intervene in the
European parliamentary elections.

However the range of attacks being prepared
for by the European Union are more drastic than information operations to sow
"disorder and disbelief", as the head of Estonia's equivalent of MI6 warned.
"The possibility of a large-scale cyber-attack having serious repercussions in
the physical world and crippling an entire sector or society, is no longer
unthinkable," said Europol.

A cyber attack in June 2017 caused billions in
damages across Europe, which an enormous amount of harm caused to Ukraine, when
malware referred to as NotPetya detonated on computers in the country.

Last
February, allied governments collectively pointed the finger at the Russian
state for sponsoring that attack.

The new protocol adopted by the European
Commission has established how Europol's European Cyber Crime Centre (EC3) would
help national law enforcement bodies share information if such an attack took
place again.

"It is of critical importance that we increase cyber preparedness
in order to protect the EU and its citizens from large scale cyber-attacks,"
said Wil van Gemert, Europol's deputy executive director of operations.

"Law
enforcement plays a vital role in the emergency response to reduce the number of
victims affected and to preserve the necessary evidence to bring to justice the
ones who are responsible for the attack," added Mr van Gemert.

Cyber attacks
aside and Brexit what may, Adam Boulton, Sky News' editor-at-large, has warned
that the UK could still be bitten in the European Parliament elections.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
